Refactor templates to use shared implementation (#14703)
dotnet/arcade: eng/common/template-guidance.md

# Overview

Arcade provides templates for public (`/templates`) and 1ES pipeline templates (`/templates-official`) scenarios.  Pipelines which are required to be managed by 1ES pipeline templates should reference `/templates-offical`, all other pipelines may reference `/templates`.

## How to use

> - 1ES Pipeline Template or 1ES Microbuild template runs should reference `eng/common/templates-official`
> 
> - All other runs should reference `eng/common/templates`
> 
> - If you directly reference `steps` or `variables` templates, make sure the default value for `templateIs1ESManaged` is properly set or explicitly provide it.
> 
> If your pipeline runs internal and is Production, it should reference `eng/common/templates-official` templates.  Otherwise, reference `eng/common/templates` templates.  See [azure-pipelines.yml](../../azure-pipelines.yml) (templates-official example) or [azure-pipelines-pr.yml](../../azure-pipelines-pr.yml) (templates example) for examples.
> 
> If you reference a template under the `job`, `jobs`, or `post-build` subdirectories, then the `templateIs1ESManaged` parameter should be properly initialized.  References to templates under `steps` or `variables` subdirectories, generally provide a default value for `templateIs1ESManaged` which is appropriate for those scenarios, but you can provide a different value when directly referencing those templates if you have a unique scenario.  See [Development Notes](#development-notes) below for more information on the `templateIs1ESManaged1 parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic guidance is:

- 1ES Pipeline Template or 1ES Microbuild template runs should reference `eng/common/templates-official`. Any internal production-graded pipeline should use these templates.

- All other runs should reference `eng/common/templates`.

See [azure-pipelines.yml](../../azure-pipelines.yml) (templates-official example) or [azure-pipelines-pr.yml](../../azure-pipelines-pr.yml) (templates example) for examples.

#### The `templateIs1ESManaged` parameter

The `templateIs1ESManaged` is available on most templates and affects which of the variants is used for nested templates. See [Development Notes](#development-notes) below for more information on the `templateIs1ESManaged1 parameter.

- For templates under `job/`, `jobs/`, or `post-build/`, this parameter must be explicitly set.

- For templates under `steps/` or `variables/`, the parameter provides a suitable default value for most cases but you can choose to override it.
```

How about something like this? Please correct whatever is off.

# Overview

Arcade provides templates for public (`/templates`) and 1ES pipeline templates (`/templates-official`) scenarios.  Pipelines which are required to be managed by 1ES pipeline templates should reference `/templates-offical`, all other pipelines may reference `/templates`.

Additional implementation notes regarding 1ES pipeline templates can be found in the [Guidance for implementing 1ES Pipeline Templates](https://microsoft-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/personal/mjanecke_microsoft_com/Documents/Guidance%20for%20Implementing%201ES%20Pipeline%20Templates.docx?d=wb85ba51ba3a54329ba8a3c55e1698f73&csf=1&web=1&e=NIZo0V) doc.

## How to use

- 1ES Pipeline Template or 1ES Microbuild template runs should reference `eng/common/templates-official`

- All other runs should reference `eng/common/templates`

- If you directly reference `steps` or `variables` templates, make sure the default value for `templateIs1ESManaged` is properly set or explicitly provide it.

Repo YAML's should reference templates in either `eng/common/templates` or `eng/common/templates-official`.

> If your pipeline runs internal and is Production, it should reference `eng/common/templates-official` templates.  Otherwise, reference `eng/common/templates` templates.  See [azure-pipelines.yml](../../azure-pipelines.yml) (templates-official example) or [azure-pipelines-pr.yml](../../azure-pipelines-pr.yml) (templates example) for examples.

Reviewer: This paragraph somehow weirdly duplicates the first point above. Maybe we should merge those and say something like "for internal and production, 1ES PT must be used and  that means you need to use tempaltes-official"

Author: This was an attempt to address your request for a summary ("How to use") section.  I interpreted that feedback as looking for quick quidance; however, I find that most summary sections benefit from further clarification (for curious readers).  There is, of course, some duplication between a summary section and an explanation of that summary.  

To me, this doesn't feel weird, but I'm happy to talk any edits you propose.

> If you reference a template under the `job`, `jobs`, or `post-build` subdirectories, then the `templateIs1ESManaged` parameter should be properly initialized.  References to templates under `steps` or `variables` subdirectories, should provide a default value for `templateIs1ESManaged` which is appropriate for those scenarios, but you can provide a different value when directly referencing those templates if you have a unique scenario.

Reviewer: I am not sure what `should provide a default value` means. Default value is usually not provided?
Also we don't need to tell people they can provide another value? That's sort of expected?

Also - is the parameter required by the template or has a default value? Because then the first sentence is useless too.

Maybe we can be more concise over all (phrases like `which is appropriate for those scenarios` are a bit extra).

Also there's no explanation what is this parameter doing. The name of the parameter hints it means it can run only for 1ES PT but also that is true for templates that are under templates-official. So the name is a bit misleading?
Regardless, an explanation should be here as well.

Author: > should provide a default value ... which is appropriate for those scenarios

To me this implies that a default value is provided, but it may not be appropriate for all scenarios so it can be modified for unique situations.  Also, not all steps or variable templates actually make use of or define a default value, but they still execute appropriately.  I found my wording was more succinct than trying to enumerate down to that level of minutiae. I think my sentence reflects my intent, but I'm happy to take any edit you propose.

I confess that I view this markdown simply as additional useful info both to our team and to our customers (kind of a first draft of a thought dump).  Perhaps I'm not giving it the full attention it deserves.  Please feel free to provide an explicit change detailing what you'd like to see.  I feel like me trying to interpret your desire may lead to more effort than a clear proposal from you or a subsequent change to this doc.

If the doc simply confuses you because it lacks the direction you'd prefer, that's good feedback and I can delete it from this PR.

Reviewer: I am still unclear what it means that you provide the default value. If it's the default, you shouldn't need to provide it?

I was unable to post a suggestion here so I created a new thread. Let me know if the things there are still true.
